# Music generation Using Deep Learning  
### Machine Learning course Project  

This is the project or the machine learning course at UL FRI in semester 1 2022/23.
The aim of this project is to take MIDI files and train a deep neural network to generate MIDI files of new music.
The main paper I am taking inspiration from is "This time with feeling: learning expressive musical performance" by Oore et. al, published online on 2018: https://doi.org/10.1007/s00521-018-3758-9.  

In this root directory there are an example of a training song `ParkJH05.mid`, then the file `ParkJH05 decoded.mid` is that same song stripped down into events I use as input to the model, then turned back into midi file (this isn't connected to the model, this is just to show that the inputs to the model are a simplified and shortened version of the input file).
After that, there is the file `sample_result.mid`, which is a midi file generated from the output of the trained model.
And finally `random.mid` is a midi file which was generated using a randomly generated matrix, instead of an output from the model.  

To listen to the files, you have to find some program capable of playing midi files or converting midi into an audio format.
On Windows, Windows Media Player should be able to play MIDI files by default.

In the `results` directory, you can find a few more results generated by this final version of the model.  
The `results/no_velocity` directory contains some results from a previous version of the model, which did not account for velocity of notes (this is basically how loud a note is).
The no_veloicity directory has some results from the model with a few variations in hyperparameters, and another randomly generated file, this time without velocity.

Comparing the random file and sample result file, we can hear that the model plays more notes than the random file and may on occasion have some more structure than the random files.
However from listening enjoyment, the result of the model is just as bad, if not worse than the random result.